If you've ever had to create any sort
of moving robotics platform,
you'll probably recall how finicky
any piece of hardware can be.
Sensing hardware is no different.
In long-term autonomy applications
like self-driving vehicles,
sensors can malfunction or dropout
for a number of different reasons,
like weather damage, firmware failures,
or something as simple as a loose wire.
We've seen in this module that even if
all of our sensors are working normally,
it's still beneficial to have
multiple complimentary sensors to
provide robust accurate
localization estimates.
But what happens if one
of the sensors fails?
So far, we've discussed
GNSS receivers, IMUs, and Lidars,
but most modern autonomous vehicles
also includes sensors
like wheel encoders,
radar, sonar, and multiple cameras.
In order to build a safe vehicle,
it's crucial to understand
and characterize
what happens when one or
more sensors malfunctions,
and the minimal sensing we need
to maintain safe operation.
In this lesson, we'll discuss
the importance of sensor redundancy for
robust localization and explore
several examples of sensing
failures in localization.
One important consideration
for this type of
analysis is sensor range
and operating limitations.
A GNSS receiver will not work under
a bridge and may have reduced
accuracy between tall buildings.
An IMU may be sensitive to
temperature and may require
periodic recalibration.
What's more, for sensors that observe
the external world like Lidars, sonar,
cameras, or radars, their sensing range
plays a very important role
in safe operation.
Most cars have long,
medium, and short range sensing.
If one of these malfunctions,
it's often important to restrict
movement so the malfunction
doesn't affect safety.
For example, in localization,
we may use short range sensors for
parking and to ensure we're not
colliding with nearby vehicles.
Medium range sensors may help in
pedestrian and cyclist detection
and in lane keeping.
Longer range sensors
can help us detect and
predict the motion of
approaching distant obstacles.
If one of these fails,
we have to take appropriate action
to ensure that the safety of
the car occupants or the people
around us is not compromised.
This means that a self-driving car
engineer will have to consider
the minimal allowable sensing equipment
necessary to perform each of these steps.
For this type of redundant system design,
we can look at examples
from an industry known for
its rigorous safety standards,
commercial aviation.
As an example of a redundant system,
consider the primary flight computer
of the Boeing 777.
The 777 operates on
a triple redundancy principle.
All major systems, including
this flight computer,
have two backups, each with
independent power and
separate programming and specifications.
Here you can see that each of
the flight computers has
a different processor to
ensure that a bug in
the architecture itself
doesn't affect all three computers.
If one of the computers
fails or malfunctions,
the 777 uses a consensus algorithm
to seamlessly switch to another one.
Although self-driving technology
has come a long way,
we're still only a decade beyond some
of the first self-driving challenges,
like the 2007 DARPA Urban Challenge.
Here you can see how a lack
of safety redundancy
leads the MIT and Cornell teams
to crash into each other.
If this crash occurred at higher speeds,
the results may have been much worse.
Taking a more recent example,
here's a car from the 2015
International Driver's Vehicle
Conference that fails to
apply its autonomous breaking
appropriately and crashes
into a blown-up kangaroo.
Finally, consider this now infamous
recording of a Tesla Model S
driving almost straight into a dividing
barrier on a freeway in California.
This was a sobering reminder
that it is crucial
for the engineers and architects
who design self-driving vehicles,
to carefully consider and characterize
the different failure modes of
the different sensing paradigms
used in order to assure
that one malfunctioning component
doesn't cause tragedy.
To summarize, it's always
important to consider
the limitations of any set of
sensors and use multiple complimentary
sensors for robust localization.
That's it for this module.
Next, you'll start your course project,
where you'll use everything
you've learned in this course
to implement a realistic
state-estimation system.